Public speaking is the process of designing and delivering a message to an audience. Effective public speaking involves understanding your audience and speaking goals, choosing elements for the speech that will engage your audience with your topic, and delivering your message skillfully. Good public speakers understand that they must plan, organize, and revise their material in order to develop an effective speech. This book will help you understand the basics of effective public speaking and guide you through the process of creating your own presentations. We’ll begin by discussing the ways in which public speaking is relevant to you and can benefit you in your career, education, and personal life. In a world where people are bombarded with messages through television, social media, and the Internet, one of the first questions you may ask is, how do people still give speeches. Well, search the words “public speaking” and you will find more than two thousand books with the words “public speaking” in the title. Most of these and other books related to public speaking are not college textbooks. In fact, many books written about public speaking are intended for very specific audiences. Although these different books address specific issues related to nurses or engineers the content is basically the same. If you search for “public speaking” in an online academic database, you’ll find numerous articles on public speaking in business magazines such as BusinessWeek and academic journals such as Harvard Business Review. There is so much information available about public speaking because it continues to be relevant even with the growth of technological means of communication. Technology can also help public speakers reach audiences that were not possible to reach in the past. Millions of people heard about and then watched Randy Pausch’s “Last Lecture” online. In this captivating speech, Randy Pausch delivered his last lecture to the students, faculty, and staff. This inspiring speech was turned into a DVD and a best selling book that was eventually published speech, make a presentation, or just deliver a few words. In today’s world, we are constantly bombarded with messages both good and bad. No matter where you live, where you work or go to school you are probably exposed to hundreds of advertising messages every day. Researcher Norman Edmund estimates that by 2020 the amount of knowledge in the world will double every seventy three days. Because we live in a world where we are overwhelmed with content, communicating information in a way that is accessible to others is more important today than ever before. One of the most common types of public speaking is informative speaking. A second common reason for speaking to an audience is to persuade others. In our everyday lives, we are often called on to convince, motivate, or otherwise persuade others to change their beliefs, take an action, or reconsider a decision. Entertaining speaking involves an array of speaking occasions ranging from introductions to wedding toasts, to presenting and accepting awards in addition to after dinner speeches and motivational speeches. How we deliver a speech is just as important, if not more so, than the basic message we are trying to convey to an audience. But if you have worked hard on preparing the verbal part of your speech, you may feel that delivery should not require much time or effort. After all, your speech is carefully planned, researched, and polished. It is committed safely to paper and hard drive. It’s a carefully constructed, logically crafted, ethical message. The words alone should engage your audience’s attention and interest. After all the work of building such a message, you might wish that you could simply read it to the audience. However, this is the case in only a few kinds of circumstances. For the purposes of your public speaking class, you will not be encouraged to read your speech. Instead, you will be asked to give an extemporaneous presentation. The nonverbal part of your speech is a presentation of yourself as well as your message. Through the use of eye contact, vocal expression, body posture, gestures, and facial display, you enhance your message and invite your audience to give their serious attention to it, and to you. Your credibility, your sincerity, and your knowledge of your speech become apparent through your nonverbal behaviors. The interplay between the verbal and nonverbal components of your speech can either bring the message vividly to life or confuse or bore the audience. Therefore, it is best that you neither overdramatize your speech delivery behaviors nor downplay them. This is a balance achieved through rehearsal, trial and error, and experience.