It has been said that breathing is singing, this statement is equally applicable to speaking. Without properly controlled breathing the best singing or speaking tone cannot be produced, for tone is but vocalized breath. Hence in the cultivation of the voice, breathing is the first function to receive attention. For singer or speaker, the correct use of the breathing apparatus determines the question of success or failure. For a voice user, therefore, the first requisite is a well-developed chest, the second, complete control of it. It must not be supposed that a singer's breathing is something strange or complex, for it is nothing more than an amplification of normal, healthy breathing. In contrast, however, to the undisciplined casual breathing of the general public, the singer is a professional breather. There are two sets of respiratory muscles, one for inspiration and another for expiration, twenty two or more in all. The principal muscles of inspiration are the diaphragm and the intercostal muscles that elevate the ribs. The chief muscles of expiration are the four sets of abdominal muscles and the intercostal muscles that depress the ribs. The correctly trained singer or speaker will never allow the breath power to be exhausted. Some breath should be taken in at every convenient interval between the words, according to the punctuation, but never between syllables of a word, this is correct phrasing. In this way the lungs are kept nearly full, and breathing is at its best. The chief cause of breath exhaustion is wasted breath. This waste comes from exhaling more breath than the tone requires, and breath that does not become tone is wasted. This fault is largely induced by lack of proper resonance adjustment. The singer should always feel able to sing another note or to speak another word. To sing or speak thirty or forty counts with one breath is useful practice but poor performance. Occasionally, long runs in singing may compel an exception. Half-empty lungs lower the pitch of the tone, lessen the resonance, and weaken the voice, rendering the last note of the song and the last word of the sentence inaudible. The breathing must not be forced, but enough air must be furnished to produce the proper full vibrations. What then does perfect control of the breath mean. Ability to fill the lungs to their capacity either quickly or slowly.  Ability to breathe out as quickly or slowly as the occasion demands. Ability to suspend inspiration, with the throat open, whether the lungs are full or not, and to resume the process at will without having lost any of the already inspired air. Ability to exhale under the same restrictions. The above four points are common to speaking and singing, but singing involves further points. Ability to sing and sustain the voice on an ordinary breath. Ability to quietly breathe as often as text and phrase permit. Ability to breathe so that the fullest inspiration brings no fatigue. Ability to so economize the breath that the reserve is never exhausted. The ability to breathe so naturally, so unobtrusively, that neither breath nor lack of breath is ever suggested to the listener, this is the very perfection of the art. It cannot be too widely advertised that the surest remedy for that torture of singers and speakers, nervousness, is the great tranquillizer, quiet, deep breathing, deeply controlled. The breath of nervousness is quick, irregular, and shallow. Therefore, take a few, slow, deliberate, deep, and rhythmic inhalations of pure air through the nostrils, and the panting gasp of agitation will vanish. As a help toward deepening the breath and overcoming the spasmodic, clavicular habit, inhale quietly and slowly through the nose, or slowly sip the air through the nearly closed lips as if you were sipping the inmost breath of life itself. 