The dream is so common an experience that it is not surprising that the analytical spirit of the present age seeks to understand it. Hughlings Jackson, which has now begun to inspire English neurologists, foresaw that the dream was the key of approach to many problems of psychiatry. Many observers realized that the understanding of dreams was closely linked with the investigation of mind. Frances pointed out the myth making tendency in dreams and gave examples which suggest that she was approaching the theory of compensation in the psyche. The development of theories of cerebral localisation, however, overwhelmed these tentative psychical investigations, and psychiatrists and neurologists became absorbed in anatomical considerations. Today the position is altering slowly, and purely anatomical research is falling into its proper perspective. From the anatomical, through the physiological, the spirit of enquiry has come again to the psychological. A vast field of psychological medicine has opened out in which there are already enough keenly conflicting opinions to show that there is intense vitality in this new region. Within the last few years the Ziirich school of analytical psychology under Dr Jung has parted company with the Viennese school under Professor Ereud, the pioneer of dream analysis. In England and America many people are familiar with the Freudian teachings. In the following pages I have attempted to present a view of dreams that is not purely deterministic. Interpretation must necessarily be a personal matter, and therefore I cannot claim that all the views expressed in this book would be supported by the Swiss school. The dream arises somewhere out of the psyche, and appears as a highly complex and often brilliant and very dramatic structure, which no one in his waking senses could imagine to himself, save after a very laborious effort. It would be a somewhat exhausting undertaking to guarantee to supply dreams to a man who dreamt every night. But the tale of the dream is spun spontaneously and without effort. The spontaneity and effortlessness point to the existence of a workshop wherein the tissue of the dream is woven. This part of the psyche is called the unconscious mind. It is possible to understand that the dream is a very intimate product of the human psyche, and that the questions that surround it demand, for their answer, a very intimate kind of investigation. The nature of these problems is not a material one, and therefore not easy to understand. They cannot be looked at through a microscope. They are problems of marginal and unconscious psychology. They are concerned with the attempt to push out into those shadowy realms that surround consciousness, which a kind of thought and feeling life exists but dimly apparent to the busy man. He may experience their influence in the personal and natural upheavals that they bring about, but he remains unconscious that they are really connected with him. The attempt to widen consciousness, to make accessible to it stimuli, is traceable in many fields other than medical psychology. These attempts are the first gropings after the interpretation of an inward, slowly growing impulse. But the impulse remains unaffected by criticism. Outside medicine there is  discernible an increasing tendency to look for the explanation of familiar and recurrent experiences as much in the human psyche itself as in the material situation. A man may be unable to perform some task, such as the giving up of cigarette smoking, and attribute the failure to some objective, difficulty. But it is possible that the explanation may be found in some inner compulsion or hindrance which lies in the man's psyche itself. The problem then becomes an interior one. There is a method of looking at personality adopted instinctively by all people. Anybody, in fact, who dominates the moment is regarded by the most innocent spectator from two absolutely distinct points of view. What he says, and what he remembers and adds as time passes, form one train of interest. But the way he speaks forms another and quite independent train of interest. The witness is quite conscious of what he says, but he is only partly conscious, or unconscious, of the way he says it. The practical value of this lies in the fact that although people know that he may be unconscious, and readily accept the idea, yet his unconscious gestures and mannerisms are regarded as being of as much importance as the stream of words issuing from his mouth. Fantasy is private, people do not speak of their fantasies save under very special conditions. There is some check in consciousness that forbids it. There are forms of insanity in which the patient lives entirely in his fantasies and in some cases he utters them aloud. It would perhaps be better if we spoke about the fantasies in consciousness rather than the conscious fantasies, because people are not always fully aware of the fantasies with which they are preoccupied. We have regarded fantasy as a psychic product that intervenes between the individual and reality. And we have regarded the dream as something which comes as a corrective to fantasy when it is excessive.