Whether in the classroom, workplace, or community, the ability to speak confidently and convincingly before an audience is empowering. This pocket guide offers the tools you need to create and deliver effective speeches, from brief presentations to fellow students, coworkers, or fellow citizens to major addresses.  Here you will discover the basic building blocks of any good speech and acquire the skills to deliver presentations in a variety of specialized contexts from the college psychology class to business and professional situations. The ability to speak confidently and convincingly in public is a valuable asset to anyone who wants to take an active role in the world. Now, more than ever, public speaking has become both a vital life skill and a secret weapon in career development. Recruiters of top graduate school students report that what distinguishes the most sought after candidates is not their “hard” knowledge of finance or physics, but the “soft skills” of communication. Dozens of surveys of managers and executives reveal that ability in oral and written communication is the most important skill they look for in a college graduate. In a recent survey of employers, for example, oral communication skills ranked first in such critical areas as teamwork, interpersonal competence, and analytical skills. Perhaps more than any other course of study, public speaking offers extraordinarily useful practical knowledge and skills that lead to satisfying personal and professional development. For example, public speaking training sharpens your ability to reason and think critically. As you study public speaking, you will learn to construct claims and then present evidence and reasoning that logically support them. As you practice organizing and outlining speeches, you will become skilled at structuring ideas and identifying and strengthening the weak links in your thinking. These skills are valuable in any course that includes an oral presentation component, from engineering to art history, or in any course that requires writing, researching topics, analyzing audiences, supporting and proving claims, and selecting patterns for organizing ideas. These skills will also serve you well throughout your career and beyond. Learning to speak in public can be less daunting when you realize that you can draw on related skills that you already have. In several respects, for example, planning and delivering a speech resemble engaging in a particularly important conversation. When speaking with a friend, you automatically check to make certain you are understood and then adjust your meaning accordingly. You also tend to discuss issues that are appropriate to the circumstances. When a relative stranger is involved, however, you try to get to know his or her interests and attitudes before revealing any strong opinions. These instinctive adjustments to your audience, topic, and occasion represent critical steps in creating a speech. Although public speaking requires more planning, both the conversationalist and the public speaker try to uncover the audience’s interests and needs before speaking. Preparing a speech also has much in common with writing. Both depend on having a focused sense of who the audience is. Both speaking and writing often require that you research a topic, offer credible evidence, employ effective transitions to signal the logical flow of ideas, and devise persuasive appeals. The principles of organizing a speech parallel those of organizing an essay, including offering a compelling introduction, a clear thesis statement, supporting ideas, and a thoughtful conclusion. The delivery of speech is the moment of truth. For most of us, delivery makes us feel anxious because this is the moment when all eyes are upon us. In fact, effective delivery rests on the same natural foundation as everyday conversation. Focusing on the quality of naturalness can help you reduce the fear of delivery and make your presentations more effective. Effective delivery is the skillful application of vocal and nonverbal conversational behavior in a way that is natural, enthusiastic, confident, and direct. Speakers who deliver well received speeches or presentations share these characteristics at the podium. You need to think of your speech as a particularly important conversation. Rather than behaving theatrically, act naturally. Try to inspire your listeners by showing enthusiasm for your topic and for the occasion. Speak about what interests and excites you. Focus on the ideas you want to convey rather than on yourself. Inspire the audience’s confidence in you by appearing confident to them. Engage your listeners by establishing eye contact, using a friendly tone of voice, and smiling whenever it is appropriate. Consider positioning yourself so that you are physically close to the audience. 