Photography has become pervasive in our society. Each of us sees hundreds, if not thousands, of images every day. The vast majority of images are those taken for personal enjoyment. These images either capture the moment or provide a form of self expression. Many other images are used to lubricate the wheels of commerce. They appear in ads and on magazine covers and packages. Other images in magazines and newspapers are used to convey news or to make an editorial point. No matter what purpose images are put to, it is the images themselves that are transcendent. The way they have been captured is secondary. However, changes in technology can open new opportunities and approaches that change the way images look. For example, the introduction of the 35mm Leica made it easier to capture fast moving action and images became more spontaneous and fluid. The vast majority of the images you see are still captured with traditional cameras and film. However, this is changing rapidly as digital cameras are accepted in more and more areas of photography. Already they have made major inroads into catalog photography and photojournalism. They are now well on their way to becoming a major factor in photography for self-expression. In time, they are destined to dominate photography. Although photographic technology has changed dramatically since its invention in 1840, the principles of good images have remained fairly constant. The images taken in 1840 by Henry Fox Talbot and Daguarre are as well composed and interesting as any images taken with the most modern equipment. However, although technology doesn't make good images any easier to capture, it has made profound changes in others areas of photography.  Digital photography in particular has made it possible to capture an image and then instantly distribute it around the world.  Digital photography has also closed the darkroom and opened up an entirely new way to edit and present images. In this on-line book we explore photography in a very traditional way, but the emphasis is on modern technology from digital cameras, to digital darkrooms, to on-line publishing and sharing of images. This text provides an introduction to all aspects of the emerging world of digital photography. Starting with the camera and image capture, it then goes on the discuss image storage, transfer, editing, printing, and distribution. As you follow the path through the book you'll learn much about hardware, software, and procedures. In traditional courses the end result is usually a print and the darkroom experience of creating it. In digital photography courses, a print is only one of many possible applications of a captured image. In many ways it's the least exciting aspect to students who are more oriented to the Internet and the possibilities it opens up to displaying and sharing images world-wide. As a teacher, the digital approach also makes it easier to demonstrate techniques and procedures on a one-to-one basis. Once captured, digital photographs are already in a universal format that makes them incredibly easy to distribute and use. You can insert digital photographs into word processing documents, send them by e-mail to friends, or post them on a Web site where anyone in the world can see them. With many cameras you can immediately see your images on a small LCD screen, or you can connect the camera to a TV and show them much like a slide show. Digital photography is instant photography without the film costs. You can also use a photo editing program such as Photoshop to improve or alter them. Going digital saves you money in the long run by not buying rolls of film and paying for their development. Digital cameras instantly show you how your pictures look. You can view images before printing them. If you don’t like what you see, edit them the way you want them or delete them. Digital photography doesn’t use the toxic chemicals that often end up flowing down the drain and into our streams, rivers, and lakes. No more waiting to finish a roll before processing it, or wasting unexposed film when you can’t wait. Some digital cameras are capable of capturing not only still photographs, but also sound and even video, they are becoming more like multimedia recorders than pure camerast. Digital photography is a new way to capture photos using a solid-state image sensor instead of traditional film. The captured photos are then stored in a digital format that lets you move them to a computer, print them on a printer, view them on a television, e-mail them to friends, or even put them on the Web. It's both the immediacy and flexibility of digital imaging that's made is so popular in so many areas. However, there is one aspect of digital photography that is rarely mentioned. This is the new freedom it gives you to explore photography. During that "decisive moment," the image is often lost or we fail to try new things. Hand the camera to the kids, take weird and unusual angles, shoot without looking through the viewfinder, and ignore all previously held conceptions about how to take images. You may be surprised at the images you get if you exploit this new era of uninhibited shooting.