There has never been a more exciting time to be a photographer. With rapid advances in camera technologies and a competitive marketplace, you can purchase a superior camera for a fraction of the cost of the previous year's models. This fact, combined with the advancements in Adobe Lightroom and Photoshop, along with the rise of the Internet as a publishing platform for photographers, means that you can unlock the true potential of your digital photos. This book is expressly designed to help you make the most of your digital photos, whether you are a beginner wanting to progress beyond the Auto mode on your camera or a seasoned shooter looking to make your photos shine in Lightroom. Either way, you will benefit from the sage advice, step by step tutorials, and philosophical guidance harvested from our years as professionals. The first part of this book, 'Creating the Image' , helps you become familiar with your camera's settings so you can use them comfortably in any situation. By drawing from Jay's 30plus years of experience as a professional photojournalist, you can heed his advice for photographing travel, action, and landscapes to ensure that your portfolio will look better than ever before. Once you've photographed your masterpiece, Jay Kinghorn walks you through the steps required to build an efficient workflow in Lightroom from editing through image correction to printing. His advice comes from years of working as a workflow consultant to professional photographers and larger corporations, and he offers a pragmatic and effective approach to help you take advantage of the latest tools and techniques for digital imaging. Together, these two professional halves give you a complete road map for improving your digital photographs. Digital photography is a dynamic, growing field. To keep you uptodate on the latest equipment, techniques, and software available, we've created the Perfect Digital Photography companion website. Here, you'll find bonus material, the authors' recommendations on favorite hardware, software, and techniques for creating and managing digital photos, and advice on selecting cameras, inkjet printers, papers, and monitors. To stay abreast of the latest information in the world of digital photography, visit the website or join the Perfect Digital Photography group on Facebook.  Photography records the gamut of feelings written on the human face, the beauty of the earth and skies that man has inherited, and the wealth and confusion man has created. It is a major force in explaining man to man. We are a nation of photographers, with millions of film cameras in homes and a hugely growing market in digital photography, our lives and times are the most documented events in history. Magazines and newspapers have the capability of going to press with photos shot only moments earlier. Television newscasts use viewers' digital images, sent in via the Internet, with photos ranging from news events, to weather photos, to beautiful sunsets. We send our relatives electronic photo albums of our vacation or the baby's first year.  We now have the ability to produce highquality books containing photos and text at the click of a mouse and at a nexttonothing cost. Not only are we a nation of photographers, but we're a nation of digital technology. Photography archives our history, linking us to our past by creating a visual diary that defines us for future generations. This simple box ties us to our past and connects us to our future. Pointandshoot cameras, known affectionately as PHD (push here, dummy) cameras, are mastering the once arcane task of exposure, producing consistent results. Today's generation is visually sophisticated, young people are bombarded with intelligent, well composed, and compelling images hundreds of times a day. To put a weak image in front of this audience is almost unforgivable. So why is it that most people's photos lack the 'oomph' that makes an image stick in your mind, if not become an icon. In this chapter, I'll talk about the power of photography and how it impacts our lives. As well as how to become comfortable with the equipment and working with people, one of the most difficult areas for aspiring photographers. It's like exercise, as a famous ad slogan says, Just do it, the first few times will be challenging, but soon it will become second nature. Digital technology is one of the greatest tools ever to impact photography. No longer do we have to wait hours, if not days, to see the results of our photographic endeavors. The image appears instantly in the monitor, allowing us to check exposure, composition, and content. As photographers, we all try to work a situation to capture the decisive moment. To be able to check out images while you are still in the moment, not two days later when that moment is just a memory, facilitates better photography. Another obvious advantage: no film costs, a great photojournalist shot National Geographic's first assigned digital story, Aviation. He made the surprising comment that he actually shot less on this story than he would have on a film based shoot. Normally, he would have shot about 500 to 700 rolls of film on an assignment like this, digitally, he shot about 7500 images (the equivalent of about 200 rolls of film). 